[CLAIM DOCUMENT]
---
Sequence of events related to the accident. Suresh will never forget that morning. 
It was a gorgeous, sunny day in July. He had just dropped his daughter off at day camp and was on the way to office 
in Electronics City in Bengaluru for a meeting. He was driving his 2020 Venetian Red Tata Safari. 
Fancy cars aren’t his thing and he leased this car after hearing how well the car performed in crash tests.
 

As he reflected, he doesn’t remember exactly how he got out of the car. 
he doesn’t know if someone opened the door or if he managed to get it open himself. 
he know he was alternately agony because he honestly did not know if he had the green or if the light 
turned red and he had just hit someone. the other car, a white Hyundai Creta, who were still upside down. 
 
Once the driver of the offending vehicle got out of the car, she started yelling at me. 
he knew the best thing to do was not to respond to her and to give his statement to the police, 
who had arrived on the scene. he was very lucky that three witnesses gave statements as well, 
as he still could not remember clearly having the green. As he looked back, he may have had 
mild shock and as a result, the events immediately before the accident were a complete blur. 
Those witnesses were crucial. Most people decide not to stick around even when they have 
witnessed an accident, especially during morning rush hour. Witnesses are crucial to a car accident 
case, especially when the accident occurs in an intersection. 

This is because with no witnesses, liability will invariably come down to a “question of lights”, 
with each operator insisting they had the green and the other vehicle had the red.
 
All three witnesses in the accident told the police pretty much the same thing: he had the 
green and the Creta ran the light, T-boning the car. It was mangled, crushed. 
he took at least 25 photos with his Smart Phone of the car. he photographed every angle he could. 
His arm and left shoulder, however, starting hurting him too much and ambulances had arrived to 
assess injuries. He had to leave the car to the tow truck operator. It was the last time he would 
see the car, which was declared totaled by the insurance company. He was grateful that it kept him 
as safe as possible in light of the incredibly hard impact she took to the driver’s side.
---